====================
beanbag-docutils 2.0
====================

**Release date:** TBD


Compatibility
=============

* Dropped support for Python 2.7 and added Python 3.11.

  Beanbag Docutils now supports 3.6 through 3.11.


beanbag_docutils.sphinx.ext.autodoc_utils
=========================================

* This module now sets a handful of default Sphinx configuration settings:

  .. code-block:: python

     extensions = [
         'sphinx.ext.autodoc,',
         'sphinx.ext.intersphinx',
         'sphinx.ext.napoleon',
     ]

     autodoc_member_order = 'bysource'
     autoclass_content = 'class'
     autodoc_default_options = {
         'members': True,
         'special-members': True,
         'undoc-members': True,
         'show-inheritance': True,
     }

  To disable these defaults, set:

  .. code-block:: python

     use_beanbag_autodoc_defaults = False

* Added support for a ``Keys`` section.

  This is used to document dictionaries and other similar content. It works
  as a section nested within a paragraph and resembles ``Args`` or
  ``Attributes``.

  For example:

  .. code-block:: restructuredtext

     Here is a description of some dictionary:

     Keys:
         key1 (str):
            Description of the key.

         key2 (collections.OrderedDict, optional):
            And a description of another key.

* Added support for a ``Tuple`` section.

  This is used to document tuples. It also works as a section nested within a
  paragraph, and resembles ``Args`` or ``Attributes``.

  For example:

  .. code-block:: restructuredtext

     Here is a description of some tuple:

     Tuple:
         1 (int):
            Description of the first item.

         2 (bool):
            And a description of the second.

         3 (django.db.models.Model):
            And finally the third.

* Added support for a ``Type`` section.

  This is used to document the type of an attribute or property. It works
  similarly to a ``Returns`` section, with the description being optional.

  For example:

  .. code-block:: restructuredtext

     This attribute does a thing.

     Type:
         path.to.MyObject

* Fixed including list items in ``Version Added``, ``Version Changed``, and
  ``Deprecated`` sections.


beanbag_docutils.sphinx.ext.github
==================================

* Improved several aspects of linking to Python code on GitHub.

  This can now handle linking to attributes, variables, and
  dynamically-generated objects like named tuples.

  The entire way of linking has been redone, now taking advantage of the
  Python AST to determine the correct line numbers to content, rather than
  an older approach that only supported typical classes, functions, and
  methods.

* Fixed regressions in linking to code on GitHub when building on Python 3.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
