====================
beanbag-docutils 2.2
====================

**Release date:** TBD


Packaging / Compatibility
=========================

* Added support for Python 3.12.

* Added support for Sphinx 6 and 7.


New Extensions
==============

* Added a new :py:mod:`~beanbag_docutils.sphinx.ext.metadata` Sphinx
  extension for extracting additional page metadata.

  This extension extracts any :rst:dir:`meta` information (useful for content
  like page descriptions for social media) and extracts their information into
  the document's top-level metadata.

  This metadata can then be used when building sites or tools that process the
  page's compiled documentation (when not simply relying on the generated
  HTML).

  The metadata will be available in the document's ``meta`` information, keyed
  off by the name used in the :rst:dir:`meta` directive, the content, and any
  other attributes provided.

  If multiple pieces of metadata exist for the same key, the information will
  be assembled into a list under that key. Otherwise, the information will be
  assigned directly to the key.

* Added a new :py:mod:`~beanbag_docutils.sphinx.ext.json_writer` Sphinx
  extension for enhanced JSON writing.

  This augments the JSON writer typically found in the
  :pypi:`sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml` package to include two new pieces
  of information:

  1. A structured representation of the Table of Contents for the whole doc
     bundle.

  2. Rendered HTML for the anchors in the page (similar to the "toc" available
     in the page, but without the page's own header).

  These can be used by consumers to pull out this structured information
  without having to parse the docsets themselves, helping provide a dynamic
  Table of Contents.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
